Friends, welcome to Word on Fire Catholic Ministries.
Word on Fire is an apostolate dedicated to the mission of evangelization.
Using media both old and new to share the faith on every continent,
and to facilitate an encounter with Christ and His Church.
The efforts of Word on Fire engage the culture and bring the transformative power of God's Word where it is most needed.
Today, we invite you to join Bishop Robert Barron as he preaches the Gospel and shares the warmth and light of Christ with each one of us.
Peace be with you. Friends, this year has been kind of unusual because Easter was a bit late.
Yeah. And then, you know, we go through.
And then we come to Feast of Holy Trinity and then Corpus Christi, and then we have the Feast of Peter and Paul. So all this is delayed the beginning.
Guinea or the resumption of ordinary time. So finally now on July the 6th, 2024, the U.S.
Yeah. We resume ordinary time. And it's appropriate, I think, that...
We're looking at a portrait of the church as we do so, because we're coming back if you want to the
ordinary work of the Church.
up and down the ages to the present day. So I'm going to go through this passage from the 10th chapter of Luke and just look at it in terms of
of providing a template for the life of the church.
So listen first.
1. The Lord appointed a further 72. 1.
And sent them in pairs before him to every town and place he intended to visit.
Here's the first thing we have to see.
Inescapably, the church is missionary.
Jesus took these people and
He didn't just instruct them and then say, "Now revel in the spiritual teaching I've given you."
He always sends them.
on mission.
Mission just comes from the word, you know, "Mitere" Latin means "to send."
An apostle, that's from a Greek word, apostelain, that means to send.
Sending is essential to Christianity.
So the last thing we're called upon to do is just, you know, okay, this is really benefiting me spiritually and now I'm done. I'm happy. Yeah.
What you've received as a gift, give as a gift.
I wonder up the state of bluntly, I wonder.
How many Catholics really buy this? They really understand it. How many know Catholics?
Their ultimate purpose is to
To go forth from mass.
Right. As indeed we say, right? Go, go, the Mass Sunday. Now go, crucify the world. Right.
Every time you leave Mass, you've been sent into Mission Country.
On mission territory.
I don't know. I think we tend to internalize it all and privatize it.
That's not Christianity.
The gospel is like
A seed that's meant to be sown. It's like a light that's meant to shine, right?
And he sends them beautifully,
Two by two.
Look, we're in this together.
Yeah. Mission work is never just solitary work. In fact, I think that's always a sign of something corrupt, something bad, something a bit dangerous.
If you start saying, well, I figured it out. Here's my mission. I'm going to go do it.
No, no, no. The Lord sends us...
2x2 or 3x3 here, 1,000 by 1,000. He sends us always in community. You know, why? Why?
Well, I mean, for a mutual support, that's one thing. It's awfully hard to do something totally on your own. Yeah.
Also mutual correction.
If you have more people around you while you're doing your work, you're less likely to be saying and doing something stupid. It's good to have people around you to correct you. We're in...
And in this passage,
Together.
And to me, that's a very Catholic sensibility, too, is that it's never a lone wolf sort of enterprise.
We are doing this now as a body.
Think of so many of the saints. I'm always struck by this.
A saint might begin...
with a very personal individual experience. Think of a Francis hearing the voice from the cross. You know, Francis rebuild my church. Think of Mother Teresa.
Oh, the Teresa hearing on the train ride to Darjeeling, the voice of the Lord, are you willing to serve me in the poorest of the poor? Yes.
But see, those two sayings in particular, but all the great sayings.
As soon as they commence their work,
They were joined by people.
Invariably, they were joined by people. They came, like, sometimes in great numbers. Francis had thousands before he knew it following him.
Mother Teresa, a lot of her former students came.
Think of Rose Hawthorne, one of my favorite American saints, beginning simply caring for cancer patients and before she knew it.
People were coming to join her.
So we're sent, yes, indeed.
2x2 were sent in company.
Next, we hear...
The harvest is rich, but the workers are few. Therefore, the
Ask the harvest masters send
workers to his harvest.
Prayer, everybody.
is not decorative, it's not incidental to the life of the church. It is the life blood of the church.
I mean, if you don't ask the Lord for his help to send people, it's not going to happen. Right.
You can be full of goodwill and full of projects and programs and boy, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that.
But if you're not asking the Lord,
to support you. It's not going to happen.
I've often said in the Bible, nothing great is ever accomplished apart from prayer. I don't know any great saint who ever did anything worthwhile that
that wasn't accompanied by prayer. Go back to the Bible when King David or even young David before he's king,
When he asks God,
What should I do? He always finds the right path. When David goes bad, it's because he stops asking God.
And so the church prays and prays and prays.
There's contemplative prayer, sure, but
But I think at the heart of the matter is petitionary prayer.
"'We beg, we beg, we ask. "'Lord, guide me, Lord, send me, "'Lord, help me.'"
Without that,
Our work is in vain.
And again, I think we miss out on this. And we give into a kind of maybe it's very modern, maybe even very American sense of self-reliance. And I got my program.
program, and I'm going to figure it out.
Ipso facto you will fail in the measure that you're not praying.
Well, then the Lord says,
"'Do not carry a walking staff or traveling bag. "'Wear no sandals. "'Greet no one along the way.'"
You know, translate walking staff, traveling bag.
You mentioned coming to the airport, you're going to go on a trip and you have absolutely no luggage whatsoever and you have no wallet, you have no money, no credit.
No credit cards and you have no luggage. Yeah.
What kind of trips that going to be? Well, it'll be a 10
A strange one, probably a very short one. But the point is, the point is,
Do you do this work
Relying upon yourself
or relying upon God.
This is why in so many of the spiritual traditions within Christianity, within so many of the religious orders, there's some moment such as this:
When the young adept is asked to surrender
It's a providence to let go of the things that have kept them safe. Right.
Let go.
And trust in God.
Why so many of the great saints?
are marked by poverty. Not because there's some kind of love for poverty in itself.
But there's something about letting go.
Of all the visible means of support,
That permits you to rely on the invisible means of support, if that makes sense.
It's easy enough when I got all these things around me. I got money and I got support and I got friends and I got institutional help.
Well, okay, then off I go, but I'm relying on all these worldly things, right?
But if I kick all that away,
And I'm just trusting in God. So I'm praying, yes, but then...
You know, that prayer gets so internalized that I can now trust in God and
To take care of it.
I think it's a mark of all the great missionary movements, all the great orders in the life of the church. There's this kind of letting go and cleaning out,
moment
Francis Clare, Dominic Ignatius, Mother Teresa, on and on.
You'll find this dimension.
Then notice this as maybe kind of a balancing principle.
He says,
10. Stay in the one house eating and drinking what they have and 11.
For the laborer is worth his wage.
Now, I've been talking a lot about, you know, those who go out and do the work and those who proclaim and those who are serving the poor and so on. Yeah.
But a big part of the life of the church, everybody, is
Those people who support the
That work of the church who make it possible by their generosity
Again, again.
The labor is worth his wage.
Well, who are these people in whose house these ministers are staying? See them as an anticipation of all those people up and down the ages to the present day.
who support the work of the church.
By their generosity.
You know, I've come to know this well since I've been a church administrator these past many years, rector of
I'm on the line, Seminary, Auxiliary, Bishop in L.A., now Bishop in Minnesota. Thank you.
Um,
We can't do our work apart from generous donors, period.
Period. I mean, yes, we rely on collections on Sunday and so on, and that's, of course, a form of generosity. But we're not for people who say, I'm going to get...
going to give a lot of my wealth to the work of the church, right?
We wouldn't have schools. We wouldn't have hospitals. We would not have seminaries. We wouldn't have parish buildings.
So it's a beautiful evocation here of all those people who, through their generosity, make the work of the church
Possible.
Yeah. I'll be kind of blunt. We're not that great at it, to be honest. If you look at –
100% American Catholics. We're not that great. Right.
And expressing our generosity.
That's an essential part of the church for those who have means
Give give give
And then watch what the church does. He gets more specific. He says,
Cure the sick there.
I can't I think we underplay this
The church's teacher, yeah, we get that. Churches celebrate the liturgy and prayer. Okay.
But the first thing he says is,
In terms of ministry,
Sure, the sick there.
The church is a source of salvation from solos in Latin, meaning health,
That means health of the soul and mind, sure.
But let's face it, it also means health of the body.
Jesus spent a lot of time healing sick
And broken bodies.
Is that part of the church's work? Yeah.
In fact, we have a...
"'Sacrament,' called the anointing of the sick.'
And not just praying for the sick. It is that. It's praying that they might be cured. Right.
The church has hospitals indeed because of this command.
And so maybe it's God healing through the secondary causality of nurses and doctors and technicians.
don't overlook the fact
A big part of the church's life is to heal.
What are people sick and suffering around you? Well, I'm
If you're part of the church, you're called upon to address them.
And in the second grade task of the church, he says, he says,
Proclaim
that the reign of God is at hand.
All right, the church cures the sick and...
it proclaims the kingdom of God.
What's the kingdom of God? It's Jesus. He's the...
As Origen said, the kingdom in person is not a sin.
He's the coming together of divinity and humanity. He's what the new order looks like. And so we proclaim that.
The kingdom has come and then we invite people to join
into that kingdom. We're not just saying, "Be nice,
I mean, boys and girls. I mean, be people with hearts of gold. Yeah.
No, no, we're announcing this concrete breakthrough of divinity into our humanity.
Proclaim.
The kingdom of God.
A new king has come around whom our lives need to be organized. Well, yeah.
That remains the preaching and teaching of Job and the church.
And then just one more.
When the 72 came back, having received all this instruction,
They say, "Lord,
Even the demons are subject to us because of your name.
And then he says, Behold, I've given you power to tread upon serpents and scorpions, upon the full force of the enemy, and nothing will harm you.
Wow cure the sick proclaim the kingdom and and the church
Remember last week, the
The gates of hell will not prevail against you. That means the gates of hell that we are going after are
But we're not just enduring the onslaught from hell. We're going after the kingdom of the fallen powers. And we're going after their gates. That's the weakest part of
part of the wall. That's what it means. The gates will not prevail against you. Do we have the courage and confidence as a church to face down the powers of darkness?
Do we do it with our sacraments and the power of our word and the witness of our saints? Right. Right.
Right. And when we're tempted to say, look, the world is dominated by wickedness and the devil has control over the world, he does not, not in the wake of the cross and resurrection.
It's a resurrection.
The church is meant to claim that power. Yes, even the demons are subject to us in your name. Amen.
And so,
Right to the present day
The church goes forth with that kind of
Confident power.
Hey, everybody, spend a little time with this Luke chapter 10 passage, 2, 3, and 4.
And it's telling us exactly who we are as a church today.
And what our marching orders are.
God bless you.
Thank you for listening to this week's homily from Bishop Robert Barron.
For more resources from Bishop Barron, please visit wordonfire.org.